Introduce Chain Id 0 (EOA Chain Id) (#7)
ensdomains/ensips: ensips/x.md

---
description: A standard for storing EOA/Fallback addresses in ENS.
contributors:
  - luc.eth
ensip:
  created: '2024-10-01'
  status: draft
---

# ENSIP-X: EOA/Fallback Chain Id

## Abstract

This ENSIP specifies a way to set an EOA/Fallback address for a name. This allows for users to set one address to be used for all chains, or as a fallback for when a chain-specific address record is not set.

## Motivation

With the rising interest and research around account abstraction, in addition to the maturation of the multi-chain ecosystem, there is a need for users to be able to set a single address to be used across all chains.

For a simple Externally Owned Account (EOA) user, this means setting their address once, and never having to worry about it again.
For more advanced users, this means that chain-specific records can be used for smart-contract wallets, and an EOA can be specified as fallback.

This ENSIP introduces opt-in functionality that can be leveraged by both EOA and smart-contract wallets, and does not impact the existing functionality of ENS.

## Specification

> This ENSIP aims to extend the functionality introduced in [ENSIP-9](./9) and [ENSIP-11](./11) and simply relies on the same functionality.

Reviewer: Probably it should [mention https://docs.ens.domains/ensip/19](https://docs.ens.domains/ensip/19) as step 9 also incorporates chainid 0 as a fallback mechanism.

Reviewer 2: Per the draft fixes to ENSIP-19, it looks like the fallback mechanism is being cut. https://github.com/ensdomains/ensips/pull/13

### CoinType for EOA

The standard CoinType for this proposed chain id is `2147483648`.

This can be derived from `0x80000000 | 0` or `evmChainIdToCoinType(0)` , as per [ENSIP-11](./11).

### Resolution Order

The resolution process remains as normal however now an extra lookup can be implemented client-side (or via proposed public resolver implementation).

The initial lookup is done for the chainId the user is currently on / interested in.
For example for Optimism (EVM Chain Id 10), the initial lookup would be for `coinType = 0x80000000 | 10`.

If the lookup does not result in an address, a second lookup is done for the EOA Chain Id.

### Proposed Implementation

There are multiple routes around implementing this;

> For the short-term; we can already use this specification in our apps today (see Appendix A).

Reviewer: Does `out apps` mean https://app.ens.domains/ or you mean anyone's app?

Adoption of this method is encouraged as it is future-proof, and can be easily updated in the future.

For the smoothest implementation, we can leverage the public resolver to handle this functionality for us.
This would mean no additional code is needed, and we can use the regular one-liners you are used to.

### Public Resolver

> The public resolver could choose to implement a fallback mechanism for EOA addresses.

Reviewer: Can `UniversalResolver` also implement the logic?

---
description: A standard for storing EOA/Fallback addresses in ENS.
contributors:
  - luc.eth
ensip:
  created: '2024-10-01'
  status: draft
---

# ENSIP-X: EOA/Fallback Chain Id

## Abstract

> This ENSIP specifies a way to set an EOA/Fallback address for a name. This allows for users to set one address to be used for all chains, or as a fallback for when a chain-specific address record is not set.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This ENSIP specifies a way to set an EOA/Fallback address for a name. This allows for users to set one address to be used for all EVM-compatible chains, or as a fallback for when a chain-specific address record is not set.
```

## Motivation

With the rising interest and research around account abstraction, in addition to the maturation of the multi-chain ecosystem, there is a need for users to be able to set a single address to be used across all chains.

> For a simple Externally Owned Account (EOA) user, this means setting their address once, and never having to worry about it again.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For a simple Externally Owned Account (EOA) user or a counterfactually deployed smart contract wallet, this means setting their address once, and never having to worry about it again.
```

> For more advanced users, this means that chain-specific records can be used for smart-contract wallets, and an EOA can be specified as fallback.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more advanced users, this means that chain-specific records can be used for smart-contract wallets, and a default address can be specified as fallback.
```

## Specification

This ENSIP aims to extend the functionality introduced in [ENSIP-9](./9) and [ENSIP-11](./11) and simply relies on the same functionality.

### CoinType for EOA

The standard CoinType for this proposed chain id is `2147483648`.

This can be derived from `0x80000000 | 0` or `evmChainIdToCoinType(0)` , as per [ENSIP-11](./11).

### Resolution Order

The resolution process remains as normal however now an extra lookup can be implemented client-side (or via proposed public resolver implementation).

The initial lookup is done for the chainId the user is currently on / interested in.
For example for Optimism (EVM Chain Id 10), the initial lookup would be for `coinType = 0x80000000 | 10`.

If the lookup does not result in an address, a second lookup is done for the EOA Chain Id.

### Proposed Implementation

There are multiple routes we considered around implementing this; client-side, or via a public resolver implementation.

For the smoothest implementation, leveraging the public resolver to handle this functionality for us seems ideal.

> This would mean no additional code is needed, and we can use the regular one-liners you are used to.

Reviewer 2: Is this basically saying that the public resolver + address resolver profile already solves? 

Given the fallback logic path, is the statement about one-liners actually true? Otherwise, we would need to redeploy resolvers with fallback logic.
